CHAPTER XVII.
SUMMARY OF THE SCIENCE OF GETTING RICH
There is a thinking stuff from which all things are made, and which, in its original state,
permeates, penetrates, and fills the interspaces of the universe.
A thought in this substance produces the thing that is imaged by the thought.
Man can form things in his thought, and by impressing his thought upon formless substance
can cause the thing he thinks about to be created.
In order to do this, man must pass from the competitive to the creative mind, otherwise
he cannot be in harmony with the formless intelligence, which is always creative and
never competitive in spirit.
Man may come into full harmony with the formless substance by entertaining a lively and sincere
gratitude for the blessings it bestows upon him.
Gratitude unifies the mind of man with the intelligence of substance, so that man's
thoughts are received by the formless.
Man can remain upon the creative plane only by uniting himself with the formless intelligence
through a deep and continuous feeling of gratitude.
Man must form a clear and definite mental image of the things he wishes to have, to
do, or to become, and he must hold this mental image in his thoughts while being deeply grateful
to the Supreme that all he desires are granted to him.
The man who wishes to get rich must spend his leisure hours in contemplating his vision,
and in earnest thanksgiving that the reality is being given to him.
Too much stress cannot be laid on the importance of frequent contemplation of the mental image
coupled with unwavering faith and devout gratitude.
This is the process by which the impression is given to the formless and the creative
forces set in motion.
The creative energy works through the established channels of natural growth and of the industrial
and social order.
All that is included in his mental image will surely be brought to the man who follows the
instructions given above, and whose faith does not waver.
What he wants will come to him through the ways of established trade and commerce.
In order to receive his own when it shall come to him, man must be active, and this
activity can only consist in more than filling his present place.
He must keep in mind the purpose to get rich through the realization of his mental image,
and he must do, every day, all that can be done that day, taking care to do each act
in a successful manner.
He must give to every man a use-value in excess of the cash-value he receives, so that each
transaction makes for more life, and he must so hold the advancing thought that the impression
of increase will be communicated to all with whom he comes in contact.
The men and women who practice the foregoing instructions will certainly get rich, and
the riches they receive will be in exact proportion to the definiteness of their vision, the fixity
of their purpose, the steadiness of their faith, and the depth of their gratitude.